{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2706
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18540\viewh11480\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 ----------------------\
~ SETUP INSTRUCTIONS ~\
----------------------
\f1\b0 \
\
STEP 1: Download the folder containing the databases and file directories\
\
If you\'92re reading this, you\'92ve most likely already done this! Good job!
\f0\b \
\

\f1\b0 Make sure the folder (which should be called ProteoSync) is on your 
\f0\b desktop
\f1\b0 . The program doesn\'92t work if it can\'92t find the folder on the desktop. I couldn\'92t find any good way around this, unfortunately.\
\
STEP 2: Installing external executables with Anaconda\
\
The program calls on a few external programs, such as BLAST and clustalw, which need to be installed separately. This should be done using a free program called Anaconda.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li861\fi-862\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0     - First, install Conda at https://www.anaconda.com/products/distribution\
\pard\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1148\fi-6\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 \ul \ulc0 NOTE:
\f1\b0 \ulnone  Even if you have Apple silicon, install the 
\f0\b Intel
\f1\b0  version of Anaconda. Some of the dependencies are only available for the Intel version. This works even on apple silicon, we tested it!\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li874\fi-875\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0     - Then, open the terminal and install the packages by running the following lines:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0         conda install -c salilab dssp\
        conda install -c bioconda clustalw\
        conda install -c bioconda blast\

\f0\b \
\
Then you\'92re good to go!\

\f1\b0 Just double-click the executable to run the program! Sometimes it takes a couple seconds to open.}