{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2706
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12660\viewh9320\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 ----------------------\
~ USAGE INSTRUCTIONS ~\
----------------------
\f1\b0 \
\

\f0\b\fs26 \ul Understanding the Menu
\f1\b0\fs24 \ulnone \

\f0\b \
\'93Protein sequence\'94 box:
\f1\b0  This is where you enter the sequence you want to search.\
\

\f0\b \'93UniProt ID\'94 box:
\f1\b0  If an AlphaFold prediction exists for your protein, you can enter the protein\'92s UniProt code here and the program will retrieve it and add its structure to the final alignment.\
\

\f0\b \'93Search PDB database?\'94 checkbox:
\f1\b0  If you don\'92t want the program to add PDB structures to the final alignment, you can uncheck this box. PDB search is enabled by default.\
\

\f0\b \'93% Identity threshold\'94 slider:
\f1\b0  You can adjust this slider to set the threshold for which species are included in the final result. Any species whose closest sequence has % identity lower than the threshold are excluded from the final alignment.\
\

\f0\b \'93Output file name\'94 box:
\f1\b0  If you want the output file to have a specific name, you can enter it here. If left empty, a generic name will be generated.
\f0\b \
\
\'93Update PDB database\'94 button:
\f1\b0  Click this button to update the local PDB sequence database. Updating the database is not necessary for the program to function, but it\'92s helpful to have the most recent structures on hand. Update as frequently as you see fit.\
\

\f0\b \'93Taxonomy Settings\'94 menu:
\f1\b0  This window allows you to handpick which species you want included in your search. All species in the database are organized by taxonomy, with checkboxes allowing you to enable or disable species or taxonomic groups. If you want to add a new species, see the database instructions document in the instructions folder.\
\
\

\f0\b\fs26 \ul Interpreting Your Results
\f1\b0\fs24 \ulnone \
\
Each output file contains a sequence alignment of all sequences found within the identity threshold set by the user.\
\
To the left of each sequence is the name of the species the sequence belongs to, followed by % identity to the query sequence. \
\
Below the sequences are the structures of similar proteins found in the PDB database that have been overlaid onto the sequence alignment. Each structure line is labelled on the left with its PDB code. \ul This section only appears if PDB search is enabled.\ulnone \
The structure is represented by a string of characters as follows:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\'91A\'92 - this residue is part of an alpha helix\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\'91B\'92 - this residue is part of a beta sheet\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\'91-\'91 - this residue is unstructured\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\'91X\'92 - this residue is not modelled in this PDB structure\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Below the PDB structures, the structure of the AlphaFold prediction for the protein is overlaid onto the sequence alignment. It is represented by a string of characters, going by the same legend as the PDB structures. \ul \ulc0 This section only appears if a UniProt ID for the query sequence is entered.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ulnone \
Below the AlphaFold structure are clustalw conservation scores representing conservation across the aligned sequences. \
clustalw conservation scores are as follows:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\'91*\'92 - the residue is identical across all aligned sequences\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\'91:\'92 - conserved substitutions exist between aligned species\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\'91.\'92 - semi-conserved substitutions exist between aligned species\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\'91 \'91 - this residue is not conserved\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
At the bottom of the alignment, accession codes for all aligned species and the % identity of all species below the identity threshold are listed.\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs26 \cf0 \ul Using the PyMOL output file
\f1\b0\fs24 \ulnone \
\
Along with each alignment, the program creates a file by the same name + \'91_pymol\'92 in the folder called \'93pymol output\'94. This is a PyMOL command file that will project the conservation scores from the corresponding alignment onto a 3D structure in PyMOL.\
\
To use the file, first open a PDB model of the protein in PyMOL. An AlphaFold structure prediction usually works best, but if a full-sequence solved structure exists, that should work as well. Just ensure that there are no unmodelled sections or extraneous tags, and that the sequence starts counting at 1. \
\
Then, in the command bar, type @, then drag the output file into the command bar. This should fill in the file path to the command file. Then press enter, and the commands will execute to colour the model. \
\
The darker the colour, the more conserved that residue is. White means completely unconserved, and the darkest blue means completely identical.\
\
\
\
\
\
}